_pages/about.md, before:

---
permalink: /
title: "About me"
excerpt: "About me"
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
  - /about/
  - /about.html
---

<div
style="max-width:800px;margin-left:auto;margin-right:auto;padding-top:40px;padding-bottom:20px;padding-left:15px;padding-right:15px">

<p>
I am a research engineer in the Peter T. Cummings lab in the Department of Chemical and Biomolecular
Engineering at Vanderbilt University, where I received my PhD in 2019. My research focuses on the
use of molecular simulation to study the fundamental properties of components of next-generation
energy storage devices. Lately I have also worked on tools that automate workflows aimed at these
and other scientific questions. My main two projects at Vanderbilt have been the <a href="https://web.ornl.gov/sci/first/">FIRST Center</a> and <a href="https://mosdef.org">MoSDeF</a>.
</p>

<p>
In my free time I enjoy playing games (Pokemon Go and PC games), cooking, and reading (send me your favorite blog posts!).
</p>

<img style="float: left; margin: 0px 15px 10px 0px;" src="/images/solvent.png"  height="300" width="420"/>

<p>
<small>
<i>A single ionic liquid cation-anion pair in solution. The ionic liquid is
[BMIM<sup>+</sup>][Tf<sub>2</sub>N<sup>-</sup>] (1-Butyl-3-methylimidazolium
bis(trifluoromethanesulfonyl)imide), drawn with a ball-and-stick model, and the
solvent is acetonitrile, rendered with large cyan spheres.
</i>
</small>
</p>

</div>

Commit message:

Update for Open Force Field role

_pages/about.md, after:

---
permalink: /
title: "About me"
excerpt: "About me"
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
  - /about/
  - /about.html
---

<div
style="max-width:800px;margin-left:auto;margin-right:auto;padding-top:40px;padding-bottom:20px;padding-left:15px;padding-right:15px">

<p>
I am a software scientist with the <a href="https://openforcefield.org">Open Force Field initiative</a>,
where I started in March 2020. I am interested in reproducible scientific workflows and the software 
that enables them.
</p>

<p>
Previously, I was a PhD candidate and research engineer in the Peter T.
Cummings lab in the Department of Chemical and Biomolecular
Engineering at Vanderbilt University, where I received my PhD in 2019. My research there focused on the
use of molecular simulation to study the fundamental properties of components of next-generation
energy storage devices. Late in my time at Vanderbilt, I also worked on tools that automate workflows aimed at these
and other scientific questions. My main two projects at Vanderbilt were the <a href="https://web.ornl.gov/sci/first/">FIRST Center</a> and <a href="https://mosdef.org">MoSDeF</a>.
</p>

<p>
In my free time I enjoy playing games (Pokemon Go and PC games), cooking, and reading (send me your favorite blog posts!).
</p>

<img style="float: left; margin: 0px 15px 10px 0px;" src="/images/solvent.png"  height="300" width="420"/>

<p>
<small>
<i>A single ionic liquid cation-anion pair in solution. The ionic liquid is
[BMIM<sup>+</sup>][Tf<sub>2</sub>N<sup>-</sup>] (1-Butyl-3-methylimidazolium
bis(trifluoromethanesulfonyl)imide), drawn with a ball-and-stick model, and the
solvent is acetonitrile, rendered with large cyan spheres.
</i>
</small>
</p>

</div>
